# Meeting Notes 2021-05-05

## Attendees
* Tim Cappalli (Microsoft Identity)
* Mark Wahl (Microsoft Identity)
* Matt Domsch (Sailpoint)
* Wes Dunnington (Ping)
* Matt Peterson (OneIdentity)
* Dean Saxe (AWS)
* Pamela Dingle (Microsoft Identity)
* Paul Lanzi (Remediant)
* Anuradha
* Audrei (Slack)
* Danny Mayer
* Isanka Rajapaksha
* Imesh Chandrasiri
* Jacob Childress
* Jeremy Palenchar
* Minoli de Silva
* Quint Daenen (Elimity)
* Rashmini
* Vivek Thakyal (AWS)
* Yasin


## Notes
### Mark Wahl 
[presentation](https://github.com/SCIM-Interest-Group/meetings/blob/main/2021/20210505-IETF_SCIM_Profile_discussion.pdf) 

{Mark}
* Lots of groups defining protocols. Used to be just IETF. Now OASIS, OIDF, etc. Challenges with terminology. May not know IETF specifics or behind the scenes assumptions
* MAY is an interesting word for interoperability. Heavily used in SCIM RFCs.
* Need a document that profiles certain common applications / use cases, that makes it more cookie cutter to implement.
* Payload should be more prescriptive
* List of "things you need"
* [Existing expired internet draft](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-wahl-scim-profile-00)
* {Matt Domsch} what about changes to objects (ex: many solutios today send webhooks on changes)
* {Jeremy} If IdP is always the client and the RP is always the server, we could eliminate the need for eventing.
* {Matt Peterson} use this as an opportunity to discuss best solution for object state changes
* {Mark} few active users, may not make sense to send all. Local cache vs uturn API call.
* {Matt Peterson} general invitation to everyone to email the list with their thoughts
* {Pam} dedicate time on the call to this topic?
* {Jeremy P} what is the history in the standards group of getting one of these profiles out there? And is it worth it adoption wise?
* {Pam} can submit a draft without a WG charter. 
* {Mark} History around LDAP profiles in EDU (inetOrgPerson), etc. Profiles can provide the opportunity to remove unused things from the core spec prior to full standardization.
* {Jeremy P} soft deletion: should this become part of the profile?
* {Danny Mayer} We disable the account on a delete
* {Jeremy P} What happens when a new account comes in with the same email address at a later date
* {Vivek} Reclaiming an old user is definitely an issue
* {Pam} can anyone take a look at the soft-delete draft and report back?
* {Jeremy P} solution for drift / paging
* {Matt Domsch} Unidirectional or bidirectional?
* {Jeremy P} IdP is picking up changes from authoritative datasource and pushing to the RP. In the case where the application is authoritative for a piece of data, how do they notify IdP.
* {Matt Peterson} Mixing roles (clients and servers). Webhook model keeps things simple.

### Other
* {Pam} IETF 111, if we want BOF,  need to take action now. Anyone opposed to BOF for 111? (no)
