# Meeting Notes - 16 June 2021

# Attendees:
 * Pamela Dingle (Microsoft Identity)
 * Tim Cappalli (Microsoft Identity)
 * Danny Mayer
 * Danny Zollner (Microsoft Identity)
 * Matt Peterson (One Identity)
 * Phil Hunt
 * Paul Lanzi (Remediant)
 * Ryan Bradley

# Agenda
 * Update on Birds of a Feather submission
 * Review of interest list
 * Discussion of drafting charter

# Birds of a Feather submission / status / agenda
 * Submitted, haven't heard back yet if we are approved
 * Submission is here: https://hackmd.io/B6C1j-QIRIqCixibHt6tMw
 * Our area = ART = Application & Real Time
 * Discussion that area directors will look for ~20 ppl minimum to support moving forward
 * Phil noted that IETF will pick the chairs, and prefer to have one who has done IETF chair-ing previously
 * Next up: Contact the area directors (Francesca + Murray) and engage them in conversation, seek advice, etc.
 * Is Leif available to continue on? Pam doesn't know. Continue to copy him on correspondance with Area Directors. Do we have contact with others with IETF experience?
 * Next up: Make more acquintances/friends
 * Discussion of tying in with IDPro and doing a survey with/through them. Use simplecloud.info to host the survey?
 * What should the survey ask?
     * Does your organization use SCIM? 
     * Do you maintain a SCIM client?
     * Do you maintain a SCIM server?
     * Are you a multi-tenant platform? If so, how many tenants?
     * How many SCIM connections do you service today?
     * Are you using it for provisioning, for a directory, or both?
     * Are you using SCIM for something besides users and groups?
     * Have you extended SCIM (via schemas, new objects, etc.)
     * Are there business problems that you wanted to, or tried to solve with SCIM but found SCIM lacking? If so, what did you use/implement instead?
     * ~Interest gauging questions~
    
Danny Z, Tim, Phil, Paul, Matt 

# Next time
* Matt P to present the Cursor draft (15-20 mins)