# SCIM IG Meeting Notes 6 October 2021

# Attendees
* Danny Mayer
* Kevin Kampman
* Danny Zollner
* Phil Hunt
* Parul Jain
* Pamela Dingle
* Paul Lanzi
* Qingwen Cheng
* Mike Kiser
* Janelle Allen
* Mike Peterson
* Jacob Childress
* Shon Vella
* Nancy Cam-Winget

# Agenda
* Tooling
* Next steps and how to move forward

# Important Dates
* Draft cutoff:  https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/112/important-dates/

# Notes
* Choice of tools
    * We can continue to use Github if we want to
    * Scripts exist that translates from markdown to txt, we can make that choice as a group
    * There will be a session on "how to write specifications" at IETF 112, everyone should take it (recommendation by Phil)
    * 
* On moving forward (question by Parul)
    * Are all the people on all the teams?
    * How are we reviewing and including viewpoints?
    * It is up to the working group to decide the work, milestones have been bulleted
    * 2-4 authors per document is usual, one of them is the editor, but the content has to be approved by the working group
    * All decisions must be confirmd on the mailing list
    * At the end of the document creation period, docs go into an "Auth48" state 
    * We can slice up the "who does what" per document now, it is all very fluid
        * Then goes into RFC editor queue
    * Question: does there have to be a separate doc for everything, or is it one big thing?
        * Drafts can be merged
        * If you submit a draft it can really trigger extra conversation so it is a good way to prompt conversation
        * Official adoption of the draft happens later and not all drafts have to be submitted
        *
* Charter 
    * is now stable, 3 Area Directors have lodged a "No Objection" (yay!)

* In running the meeting
    * (note from Danny M) - the editors and chairs are the only required participants
    * Somebody needs to scribe
    * Nancy is hoping to get a co-chair
    * Chairs will last for the agenda

* Milestones Review
    * Pam: hoping to get a group together to work on revision of use cases / concepts
    * The milestones set do not prevent anyone from submitting new drafts, but the drafts need to be in scope of the charter
* How can we make progress outside of this meeting
    * It is up to the group
        * Some groups have side channels but the IETF prefers that all comms go through the official SCIM mailing list
        * Detailed edits etc for specific drafts will occur separately

* BOF vs WG
    * We should know soon whether we will meet at IETF 112 as BOF or as plenary
    * The agenda will change depending on which category we fall into

* What if my submission isn't in the charter?
    * Nancy will allow out-of-charter submission presentations at the end of the meetings
    * The group can re-charter, if the submission is deemed relevant

* Danny Z:
    * Plans on exposing roles or entitlements so that clients can read what roles/entitlements are available
    * Concept of verifying or registering the domain (ability to determine if a domain has been verified)
    * Group sentiment is that this probably falls under the existing charter

* On Scribing
    * We do need to start noting who said what
    * This meeting is recorded but going forward we should move towards convention

* Is there a bracket notation for different subjects when posting to the mailing list?

# Goals for next IG Meeting
* Review IETF 112 Agenda
* Use Cases  - call out on list, review in 2 weeks
* How to Describe Paper Cuts
* Tooling - can we create a framework?
    * Can we use messaging for team work, what are the options?
        * Mike K willing to offer his BBS!